# Computer-Vision Project Introduction
This is probably the longest and biggest project I've ever made in my entire life -- it centers around creating demos and providing notes for those who want to learn more about the mathematics of computer vision. It took me around a month or so following the end of 2nd sem of college to write up the notes and to create the demos. They match the sections in my notes. Do note that the notes **"CV_Notes_Kidambi_Abhiram"** are written **exclusively** by me, Abhiram Kidambi, if you choose to use them in some other resource/location, please do give credit!! Furthermore, note that ALL CONTENT in **"416_NOTES"** is written **entirely** by Dr. Wojciech Czaja, a math professor from the University of Maryland, and parts of that content are addressed/mentioned in the DSP section. **Use of that content is not permitted without consulting Dr. Czaja first**. Any of the major inspirations/sources I used to compile and write the notes are listed at the start, and everything else is referenced at the start of sections or as the notes continue.

That being said, although some of the notes (particularly MY notes) do have typos and some things are improperly explained, I did my best effort to go through the important topics and make sure they were explained to a reasonably-correct point (do recall I am a college student and not a qualified professional). There are also some obvious inconsistencies becuase I just didn't have enough time to perfect everything -- for example, certain sections will have practice problems with solutions, and certain sections won't really have anything. The notes are a total of around 60 pages, and a light skim should make all the notes readable in 1-1.5 hour.

I will quickly give an explanation on the topics and what extent in which I discuss/go-through some of the topics:
- **Basic Overview** - this consists of important mathematical and photography tools/concepts you should know. Note that although PCA and SVD aren't that important in the notes, understanding convolution and the pinhole projection is of tantamount importance. The pinhole projection section in particular is one of the longest sections in the notes and took me a long time to make (since it's the only section with proper "photos") -- it becomes very important later down the line.
- **DSP/Fourier-Analysis Topics** - this section is pretty much useless for those solely interested in computer vision. That being said, this includes a bunch of topics about signals processing and transforms -- it will walk through a lot of the information pertaining the Discrete Fourier Transform, the Gabor Transform, the (Discrete) Wavelet Transform, the Discrete Haar Transform, the Laplace and Z Transforms, along with the ideas of Multiresolutional Analysis. This is a condensation of a lot of the material from MATH416, so do note that much of the notes will be in line with the 416 Notes. Note that there are a few demos from this section in the notes.
- **Image Processing AND Edge Detection** - this section includes a lot of old-school computer vision topics that aren't really in use today simply because Deep-Learning has taken over. It includes concepts such as Kernels, Gradient Kernels, Laplacian Kernels, Template Matching/Correlation, Canny Edge Detector, the Hough Transform, and SIFT detectors. These are topics that involve certain mathematical ideals that are omitted for sake of understanding -- more information regarding the math can be found online on certain resources. That being said, you can also find a lot of demos which include information in the DIP/Edge-Detection folder. These are two separate chapters.
- **Image Stitching** - this section is why understanding the pinhole projection is important and details the process of taking two images, and performing the homography matrix linear operation in order to "match" the two images to create a single one. It's particularly useful in technologies like Google Street View where we want to stitch photos/videos from different angles to make it appear like a 3d-world. The concept of RANSAC (Random Sample Consensus) is introduced along with the ideas of different linear transformations (affine, projection) and homogeneous coordinates which are used significantly in many computer vision research topics.
- **Facial Detection and Recognition** - this is a very broad topic that focuses on the idea of detecting faces, and then finding ways to recognize them (the latter part is very briefly covered because nowadays this is mostly done through Deep-Learning). Facial Detection is particularly useful in cameras for auto-focusing and auto-adjustment so that the photo can be adjusted to make the faces "look best" and that the focus-plane is matching where the most amount of "faces" are located (concepts that extend from the pinhole projection model taught in section 1). The Viola-Jones algorithm is mentioned along with some other facial recognition algorithms, and the broad focus is the idea of Haar-Cascading and the use of Haar-Features in developing a classifier. This can be loosely summarized as taking some of the content earlier from Haar Wavelets/Transforms and finding ways to create classifiers to detect faces and pinpoint them in an image. 
- **Deep Learning** - this is by far the **least** dense and explanatory section of the textbook simply because it occurred to me about midway through that most of the content here isn't really something you could "teach" in a typical sense since it all revolves around taking Neural Networks and fine-tuning them. Some of the content derives from a textbook which I read, but a lot of the content comes from my own personal research. That being said, for this particular topic, the best way to get into this field is simply by working with models like YOLO. If you would like to see some of my work with YOLO in the past, you can check out these two projects right here:
    - https://github.com/BlueSinkers/Vehicle-Type/tree/main --> this project is a YOLO-trained model which is trained on a vehicle-dataset in order to predict types of vehicles. If you input a type of vehicle in here, this model will classify it into one of 6 different vehicle-classes including cars, trucks, buses, etc... 
    - https://github.com/BlueSinkers/PC-Surveillance --> this project uses the standard YOLO object-detection library (so vanilla YOLO without any modifications or further training), but will serve as a "surveillance" program which will mandate a password to be entered in if a human enters the frame of the webcam -- it is intended to be for use when you don't want to turn off your computer but want to ensure nobody else can use your PC in the mean-time. There are adjustible settings along with other further information in the repository.

Note that this is just the latest version of the notes, and of my projects. If I have other projects, I will be sure to put them here that way those interested in learning more about computer vision can do so. If you would like to find the Overleaf link where I wrote the notes, you can check it out here: https://www.overleaf.com/read/gczzdwzshcbx#b15c81 

When I have more time to update this markdown and the notes in depth, I will be sure to do so that way the notes are well-written and explain everything better (especially because there are typos and things of the sort). Should you choose to use these notes and demos and do find typos, mistakes, errors, or flat-out incorrect information, please be sure to let me know at akidamb1@terpmail.umd.edu and I will be sure to respond and try and fix everything as fast as possible.

**Once again, please do recognize this is ALL my work so if you choose to use this, I'd appreciate some type of credit!**